[Speaker]: Today is February 4th, 2026. Today I am trying to explain the update for the 2D optical error mapping and thermal compensation project. We received funding from the government to perform the 2D error mapping project and achieve sub-micron level accuracies, and to develop technologies for a sub-micron level accuracy error map. We decided to use a vision-based system to achieve this objective.

[Speaker]: Over the last few months, we have been developing the software platform using Python to connect the [corrected: "ACS controller"] ACS SPiiPlus controller and the vision system—specifically the camera image—to perform error mapping. This involves identifying the three reference dot locations on the glass dot matrix, estimating the dot locations, and moving to each dot to try and capture the actual dot location.

[Speaker]: Okay, I will go through the step-by-step project overview. Right now, we are in the final development phase. The Python-based software itself is capable of performing motion. The process sequence is: first, we need to start the ACS software and perform homing of the system. That means, after a cold start, the machine needs to be homed to the homing position. We need to home the Z-axis, X-axis, and Y-axis individually before starting the motion.

[Speaker]: During the homing operation, we are using a specific velocity. The original homing program has an end motion velocity setting. Those motion velocities are very high, so I have created another ACS buffer to reduce the velocity. After homing, I have to run that buffer as well to get consistent motion velocities. Every time I perform the motion, I am getting consistent velocities.

[Speaker]: After that, I can start the in-house developed Python-based software(PBA Vision Systems). I am going to explain the UI of the software. First we have section to scan the network and connect to the controller. To perform that we use network scan command and enable/ dissable communication buttons. Software is writthen in the way if we close the windows it automatically disconnect from the controller. However if user required software also can dissable the communication manually after enabling the communication (using same button). 

Then, we can select the motion axis such as: X-direction axis, Y-direction axis, and Z-direction axis. Also from there, we can perform point-to-point absolute motion. The starting point is the current position, and the next point we can input as the "move to" point. We can then execute the motion using the "start motion" button. The veloctiy, acceleration and deceleration are modifiable in this window to increase the usability of the system. In case of emergency, we can use the "disable all motors" function to stop the machine. 

The initial step of any new setup is to align the glass scale and identify the reference locations based on known values and to keep the camera in focus at each reference location. While we are testing new gantry we need to aling the glass scale and identify the reference locations based on known values. So this manual motion is very important to align the glass scale and identify the reference locations based on known values. Z axis also importne to keep the camera forcus at each referance location. 

Aligning process also require access to camera and view the camera feedback. Ui also privide features to select the camera and switch on and off the camera. In order to perform that, we have features to get feedback from the camera. From the software, we can select the camera type and illustrate continuous feedback from the camera, displaying it in a window. The aligning glass scale section has a "camera teach mode." That teach mode enables the camera's continuous image capturing feature and allows us to control the lighting. For the customization of camera exposure and gamma values, we are using the SpinView software, which came with the camera. Right now, we are using a FLIR Blackfly S BFS-U3 series [corrected: "Blackfly S U3 23 123 S6M"] camera. It is a 12-megapixel black-and-white camera with a pixel size [corrected: "cell size"] of 3.45 micrometers. The Python API call for the camera is located in a file named BFS_camera_feed_in.py [corrected: "PFS camera feed in dot PY"]. From that file as well, we have to control the exposure time and capture the image. Currently, those are not software variables; those are hardcoded values. Later, I need to change those to software variables so we can change those parameters on the go. The initial values need to be sent to the recipe file, so we can save all those parameters in the recipe file.

Next part of the UI includes the fruntaionality of creating and aliging to the glass scale dot grid. First we input number of dots in x and y direction. Then in creates empty grid. Then we move the camera to the first dot location. The way we perform the caluclation we need lowerst x and y values as first point. So we move the camera to the lowerst x and y values as first point (0,0). Locating and centering to the dot is difficult with the naked eye. So we use the vision based algorithm to calculate the center to the dot with one image. Obiusly we need pixel to mm distance calculation to do that. Those values are written in recipe file. Pixel to mm calucaltion is done using multiple differant calculations. By doing so we identify the dot center location. There is a button to read the current encoder position recode in the dot grid 0,0 position. 

Then we move the camera to the next dot location and capture the image. The way we prograim we need to move to go down the grid (for example it can be Y direction). Consider we located the lost poistion of the grid (0,n) and center to the glass center location and obtain the encoder values. Then we go to the next position (m,n) of the grid to compreate the obtaning referance positions. 

Then we calcuate all the locations based on 3 locations using grid calculation button. 

Second tab of UI is to perform tests. We have the capability to perform multiple types of motions tests here. 1D Error mapping for X axis or Y axis, 2D error mapping, 1D expantion for X axis or Y axis, and 2D expantion test. In position dynamic test, In position static test as such. 

Previusly we wear testing with 